# Lumped Road Erosion Model
**Updated:** 02/07/2022

## Summary
This repository contains code for a lumped model used to estimate the erosion of forest roads.

## Repository navigation
### `rlm_data_scripts`
This folder contains three scripts used to format and plot input data for scripts in `rlm_model_runs`.

1. `Emmett1970Data_script.py` is a script used to plot data from two different experiments discussed in Emmett (1970).
   - **Input:** Flow (q) and Manning's n data for two experiments in a Pandas-readable format. 
   - **Output:** Clean plots showing the relationship between q and n for two scenarios.
2. `groupStorms_script.py` is a script used to group rainfall data by storm.
   - **Input:** Raw rainfall data in a Pandas-readable format and a user-defined minimum threshold of time between storms.
   - **Output:** Pandas dataframe of rainfall data grouped by storm.
3. `pullRainfall.py` is a script used to pull rainfall data from rain gages near field sites using the Mesonet API.
   - **Input:** Station ID.
   - **Output:** Raw rainfall data in a Pandas-readable format.

### `rlm_model_runs`
This folder contains two scripts used to run the lumped road erosion model.

1. `RE_model_run.py` estimates the erosion of forest roads using rainfall data pulled from the Mesonet API stochastically generated truck passes.
   - **Input:** Output from `groupStorms_script.py`
   - **Output:** Plots of road layer depths vs. time and erosion vs. time.
2. `RE_module_run.py` calls `RE_module.py` to run multiple iterations of the lumped road erosion model.
   - **Input:** Output from `groupStorms_script.py`.
   - **Output:** Plots of road layer depths vs. time and erosion vs. time.
3. `RE_module.py` takes `RE_model_run.py` and turns it into a Python module to enable easy model run repeats.
   - **Input:** Raw rainfall data and physical constants used to calculate pumping and crushing within the area.
   - **Output:** Total sediment generated by the model run and a Pandas dataframe with sediment and flow data.
